<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">

    <ui:composition template="../templates/common.xhtml">
        <ui:define name="title">
            Scopes of Managed Beans
        </ui:define>
        <ui:define name="sidebar">
            <ui:include src="../templates/sidenav.xhtml" />
        </ui:define>
        <ui:define name="main_content">
            <h3>Java Bean</h3>
            <p>
                A Java bean is a reusable software component that follows some general specification. 
                A bean is nothing else but POJO(Plain Old Java Object) that defines a public constructor with no parameters and getters and setters method for it's properties.
                Beans are fundamental to JSF programming.
            </p>
            <h3>Managed Beans </h3>
            <p>
                Managed beans are regular Java beans that are registered and managed by JSF framework. They work as a model for JSF UI components. 
                Managed bean are directly accessible from a JSF page. In the context of JSF, beans store the state of web pages.
            </p>

            <p>For the convenience of programmers, a JSF container provides different kind of scopes. These scopes typically  hold
                beans and other objects that needs to be available in different components of a web application. In JSF2.2 these scopes can be declared using Annotation as well as using faces-config.xml file.</p>
            <h4>Application Scoped</h4>
            <p>
                A Bean with Application Scoped persists for the entire duration of web application and is shared by all request and sessions.
            </p>
            <h4>Session Scoped</h4>
            <p>
                A Bean with Session Scoped persists for the time a session is established and until the end the session. A new instance of the bean is created for each session created.
            </p>
            <h4>Request Scoped</h4>
            <p>
                A Request Scoped bean persists from the start of a request until server sends out a response. 
                A new instances of the bean is created with each request received by the server.
            </p>
            <h4>View Scoped</h4>
            <p>
                A View Scoped persists as long as user is interacting with the same view(JSF page).
            </p>
            <h4>None Scoped</h4>
            <p>
                A None Scoped bean persists for a Single EL(Expression Language) evaluation. 
                Bean is destroyed as soon as the EL evaluation is complete.
            </p>
            <h4>Custom Scoped</h4>
            <p>
               A Managed bean's life time can be defined using Custom Scope. Programmer is responsible for removing Custom Scoped beans from the application.
            </p>
        </ui:define>
    </ui:composition>
</html>
